doc: updates for version 0.4.0 (#709)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: doc/release-notes-0.4.0.rst

.. _ncs_release_notes_040:

|NCS| v0.4.0 Release Notes
##########################

This project is hosted by Nordic Semiconductor to demonstrate the integration of Nordic SoC support in open source projects, like MCUBoot and the Zephyr RTOS, with libraries and source code for low-power wireless applications.

nRF Connect SDK v0.4.0 supports development with nRF9160 Cellular IoT devices.
It contains references and code for Bluetooth Low Energy devices in the nRF52 Series, though development on these devices is not currently supported with the nRF Connect SDK.

Highlights
**********

> * Added support for the new triple mode (LTE-M/NB-IoT/GPS) with ``mfw_nrf9160_0.7.0-29.alpha`` (see :ref:`nrf9160_ug_network_mode` for instructions for changing the network mode)

Author: The user guide explains only how to switch between LTE-M and NB-IoT, not GPS - should the link be included?

Reviewer: Don't think that is strictly necessary, since next bullet point says there is a sample on how to use GPS.

Reviewer 2: The AT command document also explains how the "AT%XSYSTEMMODE" and "AT%XMAGPIO" commands works. Maybe refer to this documentation, or do the nrf9160_ug_network_mode section already mention this document?

Author: Yes, the nrf9160_ug_network_mode section points to the system mode section in the AT commands documentation. So I guess this is the best we can do for now. :)

* Updated BSD library:

  * Added API supporting GPS
  * Fixed various issues (see the :ref:`nrfxlib:bsdlib_changelog`)

* Added sample showing how to use the new GPS API (tested on nRF9160 DK v0.8.5)
* Added sample showing how to download a new image via HTTP

> * Added multi-image support (see :ref:`ug_pm`)

Author: Is this the correct user guide?

Reviewer: looks like it? @hakonfam

   * - nRF5x Command Line Tools
     - v9.8.1
     - `nRF5x Command Line Tools`_
   * - dtc (Linux only)
     - v1.4.6 or later
     - :ref:`gs_installing_tools_linux`

As IDE, we recommend to use |SES| (Nordic Edition), version 4.16 or later.
It is available from the following links:

* `SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition) - Windows x86`_
* `SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition) - Windows x64`_
* `SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition) - Mac OS x64`_
* `SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition) - Linux x86`_
* `SEGGER Embedded Studio (Nordic Edition) - Linux x64`_

Change log
**********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

nRF9160
=======

* Added the following samples:

  * :ref:`http_application_update_sample` - demonstrates a basic FOTA (firmware over-the-air) update
  * :ref:`mqtt_simple_sample` - connects to an MQTT broker and sends and receives data
  * :ref:`nrf_coap_client_sample` - receives data from a public CoAP server
  * Simple GPS sample - gets the current position and logs it on UART

* Renamed the :ref:`secure_partition_manager` sample from Secure Boot to Secure Partition Manager

> * Various fixes and updates to the :ref:`nrfxlib:bsdlib` (in nrfxlib):

Author: Is it correct that all those fixes are in the bsdlib? @evenl

Author: Section updated as follows:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11227796/57508998-5d5d4300-7303-11e9-8ecb-8bf5f74c6e75.png)

  * Updated the library to version 0.3.0 (see the :ref:`nrfxlib:bsdlib_changelog` for details)
  * Added support for GNSS supporting GPS as a socket
  * Implemented :cpp:func:`bsd_os_timedwait`, allowing a proper poll operation and blocking sockets

>   * Minor fixes to the nRF91 sockets SHIM layer

Author: Do we have docs for the nRF91 sockets SHIM layer? (One of the subpages [here](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrfxlib/bsdlib/doc/api.html)?)

Reviewer 3: No, not really, it's an integration layer between `bsdlib` and Zephyr, namely [this](https://github.com/NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf/blob/master/lib/bsdlib/nrf91_sockets.c) file. A very brief documentation of the API it's implementing is present in Zephyr: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/reference/networking/net_offload.html#socket-offloading

Author: OK, wording updated and clarified where the file is located.

Common libraries
================

* Added the following libraries:

  * :ref:`lib_download_client` - downloads files over HTTP and reports back the progress (as data fragments) to the application
  * Nordic CoAP library - ported to the |NCS|
  * :ref:`lib_spm` (replacing Secure Boot) - configures security attributions for the flash, SRAM, and peripherals

Crypto
======

* Added :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_oberon_readme` v3.0.0 (see :ref:`nrfxlib:crypto_changelog_oberon` for details)
* Added :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_cc310_mbedcrypto_readme` v0.7.0 (initial, experimental release) to do hardware-accelerated cryptography using Arm CryptoCell CC310 in select architectures
* Added :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` v0.7.0 (initial, experimental release) to bridge software-implemented mbed TLS and hardware-accelerated alternatives through the nrf_cc310_mbedcrypto library

> * Added a glue layer to the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` to enable both mbed TLS APIs (software implementation) and hardware-accelerated cryptography at the same time

Author: Should 116 and 117 be two different items? @frkv

Reviewer 4: Rephrased, combining the two items:
```suggestion
* Added :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` v0.7.0 (initial, experimental release) to bridge software-implemented mbed TLS and hardware-accelerated alternatives, nrf_cc310_mbedcrypto library, through the use of a glue layer
```

Subsystems
==========

Bluetooth Low Energy
--------------------

* Added the following samples:

  * :ref:`peripheral_hids_keyboard` - simulates a HID input device using GATT HID Service
  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp` - connects to an SMP server and sends simple echo commands

* Added the following libraries:

  * :ref:`dfu_smp_c_readme` - GATT Client implementation compatible with the GATT SMP Service, which is used as DFU transport
  * :ref:`hids_c_readme` - GATT Client implementation compatible with the HID Service

NFC
---

* Added the following samples:

  * :ref:`nfc_tag_reader` - reads NFC tags using additional hardware (expansion board X-NUCLEO-NFC05A1)

* Added the following drivers:

  * :ref:`st25r3911b_nfc_readme` reads and writes NFC-A compatible tags using the NFC Device ST25R3911B

Event Manager
-------------

* Optimized and cleaned up the code
* Added events logging dynamic control over shell
* Updated to use logger instead of printk
* Added a sample (:ref:`event_manager_sample`)

Profiler
--------

* Added dynamic selection of profiled events over shell
* Added a sample (:ref:`profiler_sample`)

> Build and configuration system

Author: Is this the right place? Or should it be under subsystems?

Author: Seems to be ok.

* If a debugger (for example, J-Link) is connected via SWD to the nRF9160, the modem firmware will reset.
  Therefore, the LTE modem cannot be operational during debug sessions.
* The SEGGER Control Block cannot be found by automatic search by the RTT Viewer/Logger.
  As a workaround, set the RTT Control Block address to 0 and it will try to search from address 0 and upwards.
  If this does not work, look in the ``builddir/zephyr/zephyr.map`` file to find the address of the ``_SEGGER_RTT`` symbol in the map file and use that as input to the viewer/logger.

Crypto
======

* The :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` glue layer is broken because symbol renaming is not handled correctly.
  Therefore, the behavior is undefined when selecting multiple back-ends for the same algorithm (for example, AES).

Subsystems
==========

Bluetooth Low Energy
--------------------

* :ref:`peripheral_lbs` does not report the Button 1 state correctly.
* The central samples (:ref:`central_uart`, :ref:`bluetooth_central_hids`) do not support any pairing methods with MITM protection.
* The :ref:`gatt_dm_readme` is not supported on nRF51 devices.

> * Bluetooth LE samples cannot be built with the :ref:`nrfxlib:ble_controller` v0.1.0.

Author: Correct?

Reviewer 5: yes

Reviewer 6: I think it's correct. _BTW one could ask why do we provide this BLE Controller at all in 0.4.0_?

Bootloader
----------

* Building and programming the immutable bootloader (see :ref:`ug_bootloader`) is not supported in SEGGER Embedded Studio.
* The immutable bootlader can only be used with the following boards:

  * nrf52840_pca10056
  * nrf9160_pca10090

DFU
---

* Firmware upgrade using Mcumgr or USB DFU is broken.
  It is not possible to upload the image.

Shell
-----

> * Added a BT NUS backend.

Author: Is this change merged? @grochu @nordic-krch @jarz-nordic

Reviewer 7: @ru-fu : No ! I apologize and thank you for finding.

Author: removed
